welcome back to our library studio after a
good long and restful weekend of
translating and interpreting the testimony
of Yahowah it's good to be back with
you we're going to return to our
continuing story of the last word picture
we are of course well past the text
of the thirty first mashal but there is
so much more to learn about
what happened to have a adoptive mother
show up at uh Down's doorstep right there
in the castle and read the king her
adoptive son the riot act and tell him
that he was abusing alcohol and needed to
stop that he was
way too focused on the physicality of
women as opposed to their intelligence
that he was squandering the opportunity
that was before him that he was not
to be an ordinary king but to be
exceptional and that she would
adorn him for success,
that she would be there to support him.
And through that process, we say, well,
who in the world was this person?
We find out it's the person that Yahowah
and Dowd designate as the Amah,
Yahowah's Amah, productive mother.
Dowd would say,
this that she is the most amazing of
women and that she is a char which
is beneficial and and offers blessings as
a result of all she has to contribute
and we're reading that and saying you know
who in the world could have visited with
dote under these circumstances and we read
what God had to say about the ‘Amah
and how
It progressed through Ruth,
who was particularly important in Leah's,
my wife's, relationship with Yahowah.
Brought us together, actually,
some eighteen years ago.
And I'm naming her Leah.
We find out that Leah announces that she
is the ‘Amah.
And now we're dealing with how in the
world is this possible?
And the answer became fairly simple and
yet exceedingly profound.
And that is that God has spirit, souls,
I'm sorry, that nephesh,
that he has encountered along the
experience with humans, you know,
that began six thousand years ago in the
garden where the first humans,
but the first humans given on the psalm
and therefore able to relate to Yahowah.
And from that time to this time,
he has found a small number of souls
that share attributes and attitudes that
God finds not only serviceable,
but attractive.
And he has deployed those individuals on a
necessary basis through time to keep his
people and his plan on track.
By doing so,
he's not interfering with free will.
He is not having to leave Shamaym.
He is not contradicting his operating
procedure,
which was to work through men and women
as opposed to apart from them or against
them or over them.
And he is able to enjoy the results
of delegating something that he knows this
individual is going to be successful in
achieving.
watches a child of his perform,
which brings him great pleasure.
And we find that those who are part
of God's story get the support and
tutelage they need,
have the circumstances around them
prepared in such a way that they're going
to be successful without...
Overpowering the situation without God
becoming so assertive that he can't be
denied,
which would work against his whole
purpose.
And so we've realized that the first of
these individuals was Chanowk,
known as Enoch.
And when we investigated what God had to
say about him and his name,
we realized that this was actually the
same fellow that we meet later as Ethan
ha 'Ezrachy,
whose name conveys very similar
attributes,
and that this is one of the people,
one of the souls that God has found
useful,
and he has inserted him throughout time.
And
One of the things that was just so
profound for me,
and we won't get to this, my friends,
for a matter of weeks at the earliest.
I'm about seventy five,
eighty pages ahead of where we are now
in this program in my translations and an
analysis of the eighty ninth Mizmowr,
which has in it.
the most remarkable verb I have yet
encountered in all of my translations,
it's a Shawah.
And what it says in the context that
it was revealed is that God can remain
in Shamaym and can deploy a soul of
his choosing,
one that he has previously tested.
such that that individual is properly
equipped and suitably similar to God from
an attitudinal point of view,
that they are assured of accomplishing the
mission in support of a person or
situation that God views as vital.
It is an absolute affirmation of this
profound conclusion that we have drawn.
And in that same statement, by the way,
in the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr, which again,
we will review in due time,
even though it'll be at least the fifth
time we've been through it,
is part of the Yahowah blog in the
last year.
I've always loved it.
It's been my favorite,
and it's the answer to almost everything,
but I had never previously thought it
would be this personal, and it now is.
But it's also an affirmation that we have
been right and we've done a number of
programs recently on what caused God to
start and initiate the fall of man and
why we were booted out of the garden
and given the six thousand year
opportunity to get our act together and do
the three things God was looking for and
why we are being asked to escort
a mortal remnant of Israel after purging
them of all traces of religion and
politics back into the conditions of the
garden on Sukah in twenty thirty three so
that they can demonstrate that they can do
the three things that God is desiring of
us.
And that same statement refers to the
implement that God is using
and the person for which it was designed
to help as a Basar which is that
someone who has been chosen examined and
proven trustworthy so it is again an
affirmation of both of these
profoundly important insights that we have
deduced recently.
So we were talking about Chanowk and what
is said about him because his name is
actually an identifier that tells us
that he was trained and prepared,
dedicated and then deployed for this
purpose.
And we're going to listen to what God
said as he explained that situation so
that we're prepared to deal with then this
intervention that is conducted by Ethan Ha
'Ezrachy
And again,
on our program on Friday evening,
I shared with you everything that God had
to say about Mr. 'Ezrachy.
And perhaps it would be useful,
since we've had the weekend that's in
between us,
I'm going to go back to that statement.
on uh on ethan and what was said
about him it was in context of who
solomon is but it's that context is
essential to know and appreciate what's
following so god said that he gave
appointing and providing cerebral acumen
and the capacity for wisdom insights and
understanding by filtering and processing
information in proximity to Shalowm
which means complete and rational
appreciation of reconciliation,
along with comprehension and insights
deduced from a logical analysis of
reasoned instruction and through
intelligent connections,
providing this for his benefit in an
ongoing, increasingly significant,
frequent, and very demonstrable manner.
a breadth and full measure of thoughts and
of emotions,
of inclinations and motivations of the
heart and mind, especially judgment.
Comparable to the whirling and loose
granular sand of the shores,
which showing the way to the benefits of
the relationship was upon the lip and
therefore the words spoken by the one from
the sea.
Now this says that,
God didn't go zap, magic wand.
Solomon, as a young lad,
he would have been not even a teenager
at the time, just an adolescent.
You be wise, and you were wise.
No,
that's not how God did it at all.
Wisdom is the ability to process
information rationally,
to filter right from wrong, good for bad,
quality information from that which is
erroneous,
and then process it such that you can
deduce reasonable connections and
therefore transition from knowledge to
understanding.
what it is to be intelligent,
to be wise, to have cerebral acumen.
And that is a process.
It is taught.
And you have to have somebody that
understands the process to teach it.
And that's what is being said here.
that God not only taught it,
it came from the lips of the one
from the sea who would be a goy
who was teaching this to Solomon.
Now,
he would have to be a gowy because
we're going to find out that the first
exemplar of this was Enoch,
and Enoch was long before there were any
Israelites.
So continuing, it says,
and therefore the mental dexterity,
the cerebral acumen,
and the capacity for wisdom and
understanding through knowing, filtering,
and processing information,
that's from Chokmah, of Shlomo,
complete and rational restoration,
was increased significantly beyond and
differentiated from the wisdom, insights,
and understanding of all of the sons of
antiquity after time.
and also beyond the mental dexterity,
cerebral acumen,
and capacity for intelligent processing of
information adversely bound up in
Mitsraym,
representing oppressive and troubling
religious and political regimes.
First Kings, four, twenty-nine,
and now four-thirty.
He was actually and continually skillful
and prudently and wisely and rationally
taught,
to deduce and comprehend insights, chakam,
of everything pertaining to mankind and
all from this one man.
He was taught by Ethan,
the perpetually reoccurring and
continually deployed,
the long established and perennially
unrelenting and productive,
Ha Ezraki,
the one springing up as a tree,
be referenced to the tree of knowledge.
Coming forth prepared to shine.
It's a reference here to the fact that
he is akin to the lesser luminary of
the fourth day of creation with Dowd being
the greater luminary and Dowd being the
tree of lives.
At the right moment with logical
expressions regarding the sequence of
events.
Hyman,
which means the one confirmed who would
support me.
Kalkol,
to comprehend the full measure of things
and to complete the mission.
Darda,
the generational source of knowledge.
The offspring, Machowl,
brought forth to question the twisting and
anguishing travail of men.
So this is all about...
Ethan Ha Ezrachi.
And what we're going to find is that
Ethan's moniker is descriptive of the same
usage as is ascribed to Chanowk.
And so his name, proper designation,
reputation, and renown,
his calling and conspicuous position would
exist throughout time.
Thank you very much.
In other words,
Ethan is a character that is brought up
often by different names and different
designations and reputations,
but yet conspicuously all through God's
story.
existing throughout the entire fabric of
time.
Souls, God can make a soul,
which is energy-based, disappear,
or can prolong its existence either in
Shamaym or in Sheowl.
And since a soul is the repository of
a person's individual personality and
their attributes and their attitudes and
their experiences and the like,
God can then deploy that soul
nephesh soul any time that he wants and
just put it into a physical body and
have him do or her do whatever it
needs to be done and then remove them
very much in the way of what we
see here with chanok he did the same
thing with elijah and here now with ethan
ha 'Ezrachy
So his calling and conspicuous position
would exist throughout time among all of
the Gowym,
the non-Israelites who turn around and are
brought around.
Yes,
Just as Chanowk was a Gowym because it was
long before the Israelites.
Ethan ha 'Ezrachy was also designated as a
non-Israelite.
The reason for that really doesn't matter
the lineage that might have been shown
pursuant to him.
It has all to do where his soul
first originated.
Then he conveyed, narrating,
thirty instructive mashal.
These are word pictures and memorable and
wise parables and proverbs to inspire
astute leadership.
In this case,
there are thirty-one of them,
and it says that he wrote thirty of
them.
And I know that there is the want
to attribute this to Solomon instead,
and to make the number be three thousand
and five, as opposed to...
These being instructive,
these being thirty, it's, you know,
there are thirty one of them.
There are not three thousand of them.
So we just need to realize that the
same word written in Hebrew.
can be translated in many different ways,
and you need to look at which way
is the best way to render it.
So he conveyed,
narrating thirty instructive Mashal word
pictures.
The last name that was mentioned that he
would apply to, of course, is Ethan,
ha 'Ezrachy
As memorable and wise parables to inspire
astute leadership.
These are Mashals.
And his Shyr songs,
this is important because of the opening
statement,
Of the eighty ninth Mizmowr,
it is a shyr song,
and that's a fairly uncommon word in
prophetic literature,
but it is used here and his sure
songs about his journey through life.
Will be five,
so there's five songs that he wrote.
We certainly know of the most important of
them.
Which is the eighty ninth Mizmowr.
Each bullish, yes,
in another life he would be equated to
a bull, for the tribe,
for the children of Yisrael.
Learned and instructive,
empowering a thousandfold.
He will continuously speak of and
concerning the etzem trees.
Why?
because he's the first to determine the
identity of the tree of knowledge,
as well as the identity of the tree
of lives,
and how they are portrayed in God's story,
including the one reaffirmed as the
stoutest of them.
The stoutest of the trees, of course,
is known as the tree of lives,
for the benefit of the relationship is
with those who are purified and white,
inclusive of the restoring witness
of the hyssop.
And you might say, why mention hyssop?
Because it's a loaded term.
Hyssop is used in the first celebration of
Passover as that is what was used to
specifically
Smear the blood on the doorway to the
doorway serving as the doorway to life as
a sign for the people inside that they
were being protected by Pesach,
their lives were extended.
And they had no access to hyssop,
so it had to be given to them.
Plus,
hyssop is used routinely in the story of
the Adamah Parah
which is this man's last hurrah in his
service to Yisrael during the very
sacrifice of the Adamah Parah
refined hyssop
So it's an important term.
It is curative in the Towrah for leprosy,
which is the sign of unfaithfulness as it
relates to God.
Which to show the way comes out and
is extended, withdrawn to serve,
descending and produced.
Yes, that's the nature of this spirit.
This soul is extended routinely.
descending from Shamaym and produced,
yatsa,
as part of the supportive structure of the
home, you know,
from ceilings to floor to rafters to
beams.
And he will continually speak against the
beasts to mute them.
That is the purpose of the insertion.
That's half of it anyway.
And remove the obstacles
over and about that which takes flight in
opposition to the creepy creatures
slithering about,
and on behalf of that which multiplies and
increases,
causing incremental and exponential
growth.
So this is a lot to be said.
This is Malakym,
first kings for thirty-three is the
concluding statement.
So there's a lot to be said about
Ethan ha 'Ezrachy
He was a known quantity around both Dowd,
King Dowd, and then later his son,
King Solomon.
All right,
so I have made the connection between him
and Chanowk,
and I want to share what God had
to say about Chanowk.
Chanowk trained and prepared,
dedicated and deployed.
Similar name, isn't it?
Was unfazed by human or external,
I should say,
human influences in his consistent walk
through life.
This is the hitpael stem,
which indicates that Chanowk
He was able to be used by God
because he was not influenced by cultural,
societal, religious,
or political control mechanisms,
which affect the overwhelming
preponderance of people,
making them unusable for God.
with the Almighty.
Afterwards,
he delivered with him Methuselah,
a man sent as a stem,
an individual dispatched as a shoot from
math, man,
and Shalach sent out as a Shalach, shoot,
stem, or sprout.
This is indicative of his return as the
Choter, the stem of the tree of knowledge.
At three hundred years,
then he fathered other sons and daughters.
Yes,
he would be the father of the covenant.
All of the days of Chanowk,
trained and dedicated as well as deployed,
were and will be three hundred and
sixty-five years.
So Chanowk trained and prepared,
dedicated and deployed,
unfazed by external societal influences,
consistently walked,
traveling through life with the Almighty.
And then there was nothing of him,
because God grasped hold of him at that
moment and obtained him for a period of
time.
That is Bare'syth, five,
twenty-two through twenty-four.
Now, the plan that God has hinted at,
and I think fairly overtly,
by his presentation of Ethan ha 'Ezrachy,
and now of Chanowk, is quite ingenious.
God can infuse any situation whatsoever
to influence or incentivize,
even protect his plan or people as needed
to keep everything moving forward without
ever violating free will or cause and
effect.
Every insertion becomes a teaching
opportunity.
He continues to work with us and through
us rather than overpowering.
the circumstances are against us.
Moshe, Dowd, Shalowmo,
and Yashayah could speak confidently about
the Nakar, for example,
the subservient foreigner, and the Amah,
the productive mother that is his wife,
because, well,
they had witnessed them in action.
Now, as a result,
it has become apparent to me that
I am actually the one telling Dowd who
he is and what he would accomplish
following his encounter with Yahowah's Amah
in the final word picture.
In fact, I think I'm the narrator,
the narrator, I should say,
singing my wife's praises in Mashal
thirty-one.
And that I followed her meeting with my
own and presented the eighty-ninth Mizmowr.
And I think as we get into it,
you'll find that that conclusion is
exceedingly well evidenced.
Now, of course, you're free to disagree.
Prior to me putting all of the clues
together to form and frame Yahowah's
portrait of his son,
no one on earth was aware of any
of this,
and nothing is more important pursuant to
the reconciliation of mankind with God.
You know,
based upon my unique understanding of it
and love for Dowd, for Yahowah, of course,
and for the Eighty-Ninth Psalm,
I am now certain that Yahowah reinserted me
for this purpose and for me to now
record it and then share what we discussed
as Yada.
I am the Nakar,
the observant foreigner of Dabarym 29 in
the Towrah,
who Moshe revealed would arrive to oppose
the religiosity of Israel as the final
messenger to his people.
He foretold that I would come as the
world returns to the conditions of Sodom
and the world is scorched,
likely a nuclear holocaust as a result.
So in this regard,
it is especially relevant to recognize
that Yahowah himself foretold.
And this reads,
Yahowah will disassociate from him,
excluding and dismissing him,
he's speaking of Yisrael,
withdrawing from him.
as a result of his troubling depravity and
oppression,
his twisted perversions and malignant
corruptions from every association,
clan and tribe of Israel,
in accordance with all of the agreed upon
mutually binding promises of the covenant
that were indelibly written in the scroll
of the Towrah."
That was Deuteronomy.
I'm sharing it with you because it leads
to the arrival of, prophetically,
of the Nakar.
And he was needed...
to be inserted to resolve these problems
in Yisrael because Yisrael is exactly this
way now, belligerent.
Yahowah withdrew.
He is not with,
he is not currently protecting.
He is not engaged with Yisrael because he
can't be.
There's no one who is responsive to him.
They have erased his name.
They have written him out of their lives.
They've replaced his Towrah with the
Talmud.
They've replaced his desire to defend them
with their IDF.
So he has withdrawn.
And his withdrawal is because of their
troubling depravity, their oppression,
their twisted perversions,
their malignant corruptions.
And it's from every tribe,
every clan of Israel without exception.
it's because they welched on the deal they
have violated the terms of the covenant
and of the Towrah so it says then
the last generation will finally answer
they will finally respond making a
profession and a promise
Your descendants led among the correct
path to receive the benefits of the
relationship will rise and they will take
a stand such that they are established
during a time quite distant from yours,
Moshe said, because Hanakri,
the observant foreigner the discerning
individual who will pay close attention
carefully examining and thoughtfully
considering the evidence so as to
recognize and acknowledge all of this this
man unrelated by ethnicity who will come
to perceive and respect what he discovers
it's from the car to recognize and
acknowledge to know and to regard that
which he discovers through exploring
observing and listening he's going to
arrive
He will come from a faraway place at
a distant time.
Sounds very much like the reinsertion of
Chanowk, doesn't it?
Sounds very much like God's going to
re-enable Ethan ha 'Ezrachy.
The knocker is for now.
It's just astonishing.
I keep on coming to this all the
time that the whole religion was based
upon a myth that God was foretelling about
a savior Messiah and the basis of Judaism
now and the basis of Christianity.
And really there's no such prophecies.
But there are many,
many prophecies regarding this Nakry,
whether it's the Nakar or Nakry,
same individual, this observant foreigner.
They're all over the place,
beginning in the Towrah.
There's no mention of a coming Messiah in
the Towrah.
But there is of the Nakry.
And when you turn to the most prophetic
of books,
there's lots of mentions of Dowd,
but every bit as much of the Nakar.
And it talks about this man that's the
same one as Obed-Edom,
this Ethan Ha 'Ezrachy individual that's
going to save many.
And it speaks of the Choter arriving also
at this time.
And yet with all of these prophecies,
and there are so many hundreds of them,
I think the number is probably well past
a thousand.
Profoundly important prophecies.
No one is looking for this individual.
And they're looking for a mythical
individual that does not exist.
And yet, the Nakry is going to arrive.
He's going to come from a faraway place
in time,
pursuant to those listening to Moshe as
Israelites.
And it says specifically,
he's going to arrive during the last
generation.
And he will be the one who finally
answers,
who makes a profession and promise on
behalf of your descendants so that they
take advantage, Asher,
of the path to receive the benefits of
the relationship.
So then they will see,
speaking of those who witnessed the
arrival of the Nakry,
Perceive, witness,
and understand that which is plaguing the
population of this land and of the earth,
this evil disease and overall impairment,
which is so grievous,
necessitating intercession of this kind to
resolve the sickness,
precluding the benefits associated with
Yahowah.
People have become religious and therefore
plagued, diseased, impaired,
and it necessitates the intervention of
the Nakar, this Nakry,
this observant foreigner.
And this is at a time when the
world is going to be at war.
It says that Brimstone...
bearing the stench and decay but also its
purifying blue light and salt that which
can preclude life on land and yet
preserves food will change the composition
but not consume this entire region even
much of the earth that is to say
there will be a nuclear holocaust and
there will also be events which trigger
massive tsunamis
That is the brimstone and the salting of
the earth.
In fact,
today they could actually occur
simultaneously based upon the weapon the
Russians have devised,
which is an exceedingly fast torpedo.
that is a nuclear device that explodes
just offshore, causing a nuclear,
a radioactive tsunami,
salt and radioactive material to destroy
life in the places that it comes ashore.
says nothing will be sown no seeds
dispersed or planted and nothing harvested
such that nothing will sprout and grow
we're entering we're just now ninety days
away from the time of israel's troubles
and it is going to be progressively more
difficult to grow food and to produce a
harvest but god's really not talking about
crops at this point he's talking about
souls and what he's saying is that
During this time,
it is going to be very rare that
someone is harvested.
As a matter of fact, the Shabuwah harvest,
I think, will be very few.
And it precedes this time of trouble.
And the Taruwah gleaning,
which will be fewer still, follows it.
And it's just saying it's going to be
really sparse out there.
And along with all of this,
and by the way, that's okay.
We're not looking for quantity.
We're looking for quality.
God's not ever been interested in trying
to save everybody or even a majority of
people,
but of allowing us to demonstrate that
we're worthy of spending an eternity with
him and being elevated past the fourth,
fifth, sixth,
and into the seventh dimension.
So along with all of this,
vegetation will no longer rise.
That's speaking of like the mature grain
that would be harvested for Shabuwah.
Similar to the destruction of Sodom,
scorched, and Amorah,
manipulative and tyrannical.
He's saying that the politics and the
religiosity of the earth are going to be
very similar to what was witnessed and
described in Sodom and Amorah.
And when you consider the current
president of the United States,
that's exactly what we're witnessing,
isn't it?
And it says, of the ‘Admah
the reddish ground, and the Tsabo’ym
the swelling of the adulterous with
Yahowah,
destroyed his resentment and in his
hostility.
So there will be those that Yahowah does
away with at this time.
The adulteress is gone.
God has resentment.
He has hostility towards not only the
tremendous religiosity and politics and
conspiracy and anti-Semitism and violence
of the Gowym, but also among his people.
They're so religious,
the stench of religion just permeates them
to the point that they don't even want
to differentiate between Judaism and being
Jewish.
And they don't even know that the correct
term is Yahuwd.
Then the Gentiles, every ethnicity,
will question,
for what reason has Yahowah acted in this
manner towards this country?
What caused this intense animosity,
this great antagonism?
Boy,
with the likes of the influencers that
exist today,
you can see them wagging the finger at
Israel, can't you?
Moreover,
they will say regarding the way to the
relationship,
they neither neglected or they rejected
the covenant.
That's true with most people.
Yahuwdym and Israelites, Jews, with Yahowah,
the God of their fathers,
which to lead them to the benefits of
the relationship he will establish with
them by him bringing them out of the
realm of the crucibles of oppression.
Dabarym, verse twenty-nine, twenty-five.
And God is going to withdraw his people
from
the religious and political corners of the
world and bring them back into Israel.
And he is on record saying he's going
to reestablish his covenant with his
people.
We can count on this occurring.
So they have pursued and served other
gods.
That is the nature of Judaism.
The Christians created Christianity.
It's certainly the nature of Christianity.
And Jews are responsible for Islam,
having sold Muhammad their Talmud stories.
So they will have pursued and served other
gods in addition to verbally explaining
their allegiance to them.
Hashem, G-D.
He's not Yahowah.
I'll tell you that for sure.
These are gods whom they were unfamiliar,
they did not know,
negating and dividing them,
deceiving and dispersing them.
There's nothing worse than false gods to
drive people away from the actual God.
animosity of Yahowah against this country
and region israel as it exists today will
bring upon it all the harmful consequences
that were written in this scroll via the
Towrah and rather than god protecting
israel over the next seven years they're
going to endure the onslaught of their
religiosity they're going to endure what
they have done to themselves through their
rabbis and their politicians
They brought this on themselves.
They have only themselves to blame.
And it won't be till Taruwah in twenty
thirty three,
the twenty fourth of September of twenty
thirty three year six thousand years that
God's going to intervene and protect that
final mortal remnant of his people.
Therefore,
Yahowah will have uprooted them from their
land.
in frustration resentment and
consternation sending them around the
world and in hostile antagonism as if
snapping a twig in anger as a sign
of furious discord dissension and
disharmony breaking their branches away in
annoyance he will have thrown them into
another land consistent with this day yeah
they would not be residing in the promised
land for much of the time between these
between this speech and the time that it's
all reconciled and that Nakar has arrived.
The concealed things concerning Yahowah our
God and the things which are revealed and
then discovered and openly known are for
us to approach and for our descendants to
draw near through the restoring witness of
yesterday, today, and tomorrow,
so that we may approach by acting upon
and engaging in all of the words
of this Towrah,
the source of teaching and guidance.
Dabarym, verse twenty nine, twenty nine.
So speaking of this restoring witness and
of this observant foreigner in the same
Towrah, Yahowah himself said.
And it shall come to pass if they
will not trust or rely upon you or
listen
to the voice of the first and foremost
prominent sign, providing proof.
Then they will trust and rely upon the
whole voice of the last sign providing
proof, serving as a signal and a banner,
a distinguishing promise and evidence used
in the validation of a consent agreement.
This is Shemowth, Exodus, four eight.
Are you listening?
Well,
without any viable alternative and now
entering the last days,
we are just now less than three months
away.
I've been at this now for twenty five
years.
It should be obvious to everyone who is
paying attention that there is no other
option for the role of Nakry.
No one else is going to fill the
shelves with thirty-five books written
over the course of a hundred thousand
hours,
comprising twenty-five thousand pages of
amplified translations from the oldest
extant sources,
including the Dead Sea Scrolls,
with tens of thousands of unique insights
unheralded previously,
and a blog to present them to you.
There is no other candidate for the Nakry.
Observe in Foreigner.
Of whom Yahowah here in speaking through
Moshe and then Solomon spoke of in Second
Chronicles during the dedication speech
for the house for Yahowah's name.
And that occurred in nine sixty one BCE.
And as I said,
was recorded in two Chronicles six as
these were recorded in the Towrah,
the ones I've just shared with you.
So Yahowah spoke of me and his vivid
portrayal of the Choter,
who would replace Dowd's father and
Yashayah, eleven,
becoming the tree of knowledge.
In addition to affirming that he would
enable our collaboration with his Ruwach,
God equated me to the eth, dieth,
in the garden,
promising that I'd be parah.
I'd be that productive bull.
As a result,
I've accompanied Dowd to support the
Messiah as he delivered, and I explained,
the sweeping prophecies presented in
Babylon to Daniel in five fifty five BCE.
And in that portrayal, he is Gabriel.
He's God's most courageous man.
Well, I am Michael,
one who is right about God.
After all,
I was the first to unveil the meaning
of these prophecies and to generate the
timeline as everything was foretold and is
now plain out before our eyes.
The first to recognize that the Rahab is
here and that he is Pothos.
Moving forward to our day,
I have written extensively,
sharing everything the world needs to know
about Yahowah Dowd and their imminent return
just seven years from now.
As a result of my thirty-five books on
Yahowah's testimony revealing who God is
and who He is not,
I'm the only one who has been more
insightful and verbose than Moshe, Dowd,
or even Yashayah.
And I'm doing so married to Yahowah's ‘Amah,
Productive mother.
So these are my insights as I have
contemplated the prophetic pretext to the
last Mashal and the instruction and the
introduction that is,
that accompanies what I would call Dowd's
song, which is the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
So I've come to know who I am.
I've accepted it.
I know where I have been.
and where Yahowah intends to go with all
of this and much of it I have
shared with you.
And I know my wife who Yahowah confirms
is the greatest of women,
the mother of his covenant family.
Your interpretation of this material,
of course, is up to you.
My job is to find it,
to explain it,
and yours is to apply what I have
discovered as you see fit.
Now, returning to the star attraction.
when the most select of us, Dowd,
deselected himself over the affair that he
had with Bathsheba.
Yahowah did as he had promised.
He dispatched a woman and then her husband
to talk some sense into the boy who
had abandoned his calling.
Oh boy, he was now fifty-six years old,
but from God's point of view,
he was still his son.
And God had done so.
There would have been no hope for
humankind had he not.
The cornerstone upon which the covenant
home would be constructed was cracked,
and it was crumbling three thousand years
ago.
So please consider the gravity of this
situation.
Billions of men have acted badly,
have stolen another's wife.
A million have even had a husband killed
to claim his bride.
But this wasn't an ordinary king.
He was the future savior of the world.
And yet no one knew it at the
time, including Dowd himself.
The solution to Yahowah's savior problem
wouldn't be as easy as dialing up a
contemporary because Dowd wasn't listening
to any of them.
There was no way to prevail at this
time because no one on the planet had
a clue as to what Dowd would achieve
to salvage the human experiment.
And that wouldn't be known for another,
eh, thirty centuries,
at least from the time of Dowd's egregious
offense.
Even then,
it would be another score of years
thereafter for someone to finally come to
the recognition that the king was slated
to fulfill Pesach Matsah and Bikuwrym in his
second of three lives in thirty-three CE,
as had been foretold.
Four years later,
this same man had his wife direct his
attention to the last Mashal,
which has opened the floodgates of
understanding.
So here we are,
the subject of an arranged marriage by
Yahowah himself and likely for this express
purpose.
And now in the shadow of this very
day that we celebrated our eighth
anniversary, her name was Lisa,
but I renamed her Leah at her request.
Not that she requested Leah,
but she requested a new name.
I chose Leah.
She was abandoned by her father at birth.
Her mother was psychotic and abusive.
She suffered several miscarriages prior to
adopting the daughter of an alcoholic and
unfaithful man who also abandoned her,
only to have her adopted daughter rebuff
her love.
Perfectly prepared for this mission,
to have empathy with what Yahowah was
enduring.
And as for us, we connected online.
I think I've shared this story with you
many times before,
and it occurred a decade before we
actually met because she was trying to
assess why Ruth, Dowd's great-grandmother,
referred to herself as an ‘Amah,
a productive mother.
At the time,
her opening question to me was the same
as she posed to Dowd in the Thirty-First
Mashal.
She did so to find out why I
was translating the Towrah and prophets,
because in my books,
which were posted online,
she noted that I had written extensively
about the feminine attributes associated
with the Ruwach.
Our mutual intellectual curiosity
blossomed long before we met and fell
passionately in love.
A decade of just exchanging emails about
Towrah.
And not just with one another,
but with the Towrah, it's Beryth,
it's Mowedym,
and with Yahowah and Dowd is what we
developed our love around.
Now as for me,
while I've shared this previously,
it bears repeating.
My father was so abusive,
I had to get a restraining order against
him.
My mother proved useless in this regard.
My eldest son turned against me as I
was working to protect, enable,
and enrich him.
His actions were so vile,
after confronting him to no avail,
I was determined never to speak to him
or see him again.
It had all progressed as was, I guess,
required really to properly engage in
something quite similar,
trying to resolve this dispute between
Yahowah and his son.
I have experienced such things.
But of course, as previously noted,
there is more to the story.
Twenty-four years prior to this moment,
Yahowah introduced himself and asked me to
work with him,
almost twenty-five years ago now.
I went to a Towrah school with Yahowah
as my professor and his Ruwach as my
tutors,
investing one hundred thousand hours of
observation and contemplation.
One hundred thousand hours.
Think of that.
I've worked half days really ever since
our introduction.
Half days don't mean four hours.
I mean,
twelve to fourteen hours every day.
For a decade of that time,
Leah was an email away,
and for the next eight years,
she was at my side.
In sharing what we were learning,
we became inseparable.
With all of the synergy of an ideal
marriage,
a growing covenant family became our
children.
It wasn't a surprise, of course, to Yah.
He knew that it would all play out
this way.
He had foreseen it.
So confident was he that God began sharing
the ultimate flashback and his story long,
long ago,
speaking of it prophetically as far back
as the opening chapters of the Towrah.
It was prophetic, really,
the two people who came to love and
respect father and son, Yahowah and Dowd,
more than any other,
devoting their lives to restoring the
reputations that the religious had
purloined.
And they would answer the call because
they were listening,
because they were willing,
they were responsive.
It is not every day that two otherwise
ordinary people get to save the world,
but that is the position that Yahowah has
placed us in.
In our service to Father and Son,
we have already restored the relationship
that Dowd had fractured.
We read Dowd's meltdown in Mizmowr,
fifty-one,
than of Leah's response in Mashal
thirty-one to show how we had prevailed.
We know the result is manifest in the
glorious hundred and sixteen psalm,
which I've shared on this program.
But for it to occur,
Dowd needed a father too.
He needed a dose of tough love with
a side of unrelenting judgment,
all served with a bouquet of glorious
acclaim.
And this is what leads us to the
Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
Now,
while I still think it was my wife's
words that ultimately sobered up our
intoxicated son,
especially when I reinforced them with the
Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr,
he came around and he wrote the Hundred
and Sixteenth Mizmowr on the way out of
this mess that he had previously made.
King Dowd would go on to fulfill the
Miqra'ey and the Mowedym just as he had
admitted in the hundred and sixteenth
song.
And as it had been said of him
and of his relationship with the lesser
luminary working together,
lesser luminary reflecting the sun's
brilliance for having done so.
Now I would write what has become the
tree of knowledge to turn Yisrael's
attention to the tree of lives.
And now on the cusp of Shabuwah and
in anticipation of Taruwah,
Dowd's adoptive father knows that he will
be laying down his life to facilitate the
proper homecoming for the son of God and
his return.
We are positioned to appreciate
The reference finally to Yasha'yah,
pursuant to the Choter.
As I've shared,
it's rather obvious that God would have me
replace him.
It reads,
a Choter stem will be extended out of
the stump,
which has been cut down so that it
now is once again capable of supporting
new growth.
It had been yeshay to stand out and
be noticed,
drawing attention to the substance of
existence as a natsar, observant branch,
by means of its roots and that which
keeps it anchored,
steadfast and nourished,
such that he will continually bear an
abundance of fruit,
being a productive bull,
while encouraging productivity in others,
Parah.
That was Yashayah, eleven one.
Yasha'yah was the fallen stump that had to
be cut down for the netzer observant
branch to be extended as the Choter stem,
revitalizing the roots that had gone
dormant over time.
Yisrael would become productive again at
long last.
Symbolically,
there would be resolution also in Esab,
Hesab.
It's first used in Shemowth names, Exodus,
when addressing how Passover would become
the door to life.
The blood of the lamb was smeared on
the entrance to every home by dipping
hyssop into it.
And it was Yada who would represent the
hyssop and the service to the souls
benefiting from the blood of the Ayil that
was shed for them on Pesach.
Then in Qara Leviticus, four through six,
and forty-nine through fifty-two,
Aesop is presented as the way of purging
the stigma of leprosy,
a man and also from his home.
And since the only reported case of it,
other than the momentary sign on Moshe's
hand when he attempted to
Our God wanted to show that he was
with him.
But the only other case was the attempted
subversion of Moshe's credibility.
If you remember,
as Moshe being called to be Yahowah's
spokesperson, his sister, Miriam,
embittered.
chose to just speak out and speak over
him, to replace him,
to also speak to God.
And so we see Aesop,
Hesop as the cure for that mentality.
Now,
apart from the two aforementioned Towrah
citations,
this one associated with Ethan ha 'Ezrachy
and Melechim, and Dowd's defense,
or Dowd's reference, I should say,
and the fifty-first Mizmowr, he used hyssop
and it's deployed an eighth and ninth
time, and he used to say,
this is going to cause me to appear
clean.
He also used it in,
it's also used in the Towrah and other
places,
but we find
A very important usage in the story of
how the mortal remnant of Yisrael is going
to be purged of their religiosity.
This is in Numbers and Numbers in
conjunction, of course,
with the Adamah Parah.
Aesop is added to the blazing fire of
the altar in which the productive bull has
been placed to purge the returning remnant
of Yisrael of their guilt on Taruwah just
ten days before Dowd's return as king and
along with Yahowah.
Now,
as I've shared previously when pondering
the implications of Dowd's reference
during his meltdown in the Fifty Verse
Psalm, Hyssop Hyssop
is actually a remedy for leprosy.
And it's curative when purging a wide
range of ailments.
The following assessments are supported by
both traditional therapies and by emerging
scientific research.
Now these include that hyssop is
beneficial for skin health.
When diluted hyssops,
essential oils are successfully used
topically to treat epidermis infections,
even acne and puncture wounds,
and it is known to restore disfigured and
scar tissue due to its antiseptic and
anti-inflammatory properties.
Second, it's antimicrobial and antiviral.
Hyssop exhibits strong antimicrobial,
antifungal, and antiviral properties.
That's a lot for one herb.
It is used therapeutically to treat all
manner of ailments and is even proved to
inhibit herpes viruses and to treat
respiratory and urinary tract infections.
Third,
it has an effect on the immune and
circulatory systems.
Hyssop boosts immune function by fighting
pathogens and improving circulation.
It is demonstrated as a remedy for
arthritis, gout,
and inadequate blood flow.
Number four is as respiratory support.
The herb acts as an expectorant.
helping to loosen mucus and relieve
coughs, colds, bronchitis,
and asthma symptoms.
It reduces airway constriction and
allergic reactions more effectively than
Cortis steroid drugs.
Number five, digestive aid.
The oils extracted from hyssop stimulate
the production of digestive enzymes and
bile, improving digestion, reducing gas,
bloating, and cramping.
It serves to protect the stomach lining
and helps prevent ulcers.
Number six.
It's anti-inflammatory.
It's an antioxidant.
Hyssop is rich in polyphenols and
flavonoids,
which are such that the herb combats
oxidative stress.
It reduces inflammation while lowering the
risk of chronic disease,
including even cancer.
I think of our good friend, Kirk,
who is probably just now completing his
final treatment for a prostate infection
of this kind.
We'll celebrate with you this evening,
Captain Kirk.
And seven,
the mental and emotional well-being is
another effect of hyssop.
It has a calming aroma,
which is used in aromatherapy to reduce
stress, to enhance mood,
and to promote recovery from anxiety and
depression.
In addition,
the prolific lavender flowers seem
symbolic of Shamaym and indicative of the
concluding colors of the rainbow.
Again, symbolic of the covenant.
All right,
so now we know the identity of the
man conveying those song on behalf of his
father.
So it's time we venture back into the
ultimate Mizmowr
the greatest song ever sung.
I see it as not only the cornerstone
of the covenant, and so does God,
by the way,
and of Yahowah's home on earth,
but also as the keystone of my assigned
mission.
I think it was inspired and written
Well,
at least eight years before the sixtieth
Yowbel.
The sixtieth Yowbel,
year of three thousand ya,
which is nine sixty eight BCE,
would have been four years prior to the
conclusion of those first of three lives.
The eighty ninth psalm is the epitome of
divine prose.
It's the most important piece of
literature I think ever written.
So this is a Maskyl,
a portrayal of insights to contemplate and
comprehend.
It was composed by Ethan,
the reoccurring one who was often
deployed.
He is ha 'Ezrachy
the tree of logical expressions.
I'll share this.
introduction with you.
And then since we're already over an hour,
we'll conclude today's program and rejoin
at the same place tomorrow.
Ethan   would write, A Maskyl,
a poetic portrayal of insights to
contemplate and comprehend.
Prudent lyrics written to convey important
ideas worthy of thoughtful consideration.
Of Ethan,
the perpetually reoccurring and resolute,
the continually deployed and eternally
engaged,
the long established and perennially
unrelenting and productive one.
Ha 'Ezrachy,
the one springing up and coming forth as
if he were a tree.
prepared to shine on time with logical
expressions on the sequence of events.
That is
Mizmowr Psalm, in its dedication.
So it is, as I had shared,
Maskyl is a comprehensive portrayal of
rational,
ideas derived as insights.
This is delivered for and on behalf of
Dowd.
Israel and the world would come to know,
comprehend,
and share in the success delivered by the
lyrics that were comprised.
And as for Mr. Ethan ha 'Ezrachy, he is,
as Yahowah has named him,
And here,
as Ethan opens by sharing his life's
journey and God's presence,
he wants us to know that Yahowah is
God's name and he is loving and that
Yahowah has remained consistent throughout
time.
We will be reassured as Ethan opens with
the first line of his prose that
God is as he was in the garden.
He is as he was with Noach.
He is as he was with Abraham,
as he is now with Dowd.
So we'll return to this place in our
program tomorrow.
Thank you for listening.
It's an amazing journey,
quite the awakening,
and tremendously reaffirming as we
continue to grow in our knowledge of God.
Good evening.
Hey there, thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.